# What is Anaconda Distribution?
Anaconda is a program to manage *(ie. install, upgrade, or uninstall)* Python 
packages and environments. It's simple to install packages with Anaconda and 
create virtual environments to work on multiple projects conveniently.

Even if you already have Python installed, it will be beneficial to use 
Anaconda/Miniconda because:

1. Anaconda comes with a bunch of data science packages; you'll be all set to start 
working with data.
2. Using ```conda``` to manage your packages and environments will reduce future issues 
dealing with the various libraries you'll be using.

## Python Packages
A package is a bunch of modules, where each module consists of a set of classes and 
function definitions. After installing a particular package, you can ```import``` and use the
functions defined in that package.

If we install Anaconda, then a basic few packages are installed by default. However, 
you can install any more packages, if needed.

## Anaconda Distribution
Anaconda is a fairly large download (~500 MB) because it comes with Python's most 
common data science packages. [Anaconda][1] is a software distribution that includes the 
following:

* **Anaconda Navigator** - It is a graphical user interface that helps open up any installed 
applications, such as Jupyter notebook or VS code editor. We will learn more about the 
notebook in the next lesson.

* **conda** - A command-line utility for package and environment management. Mac/Linux users 
can use the Terminal, and Windows users can use the "**Anaconda Prompt**" to execute 
```conda``` commands. Windows users must run the Anaconda Prompt as an Administrator. Your
first command should be

```conda --version```

If you are not comfortable on the command line, check out the [command prompt tutorial 
for Windows][2] or our [Linux Command Line Basics][3] course for OSX/Linux.

* **Python** - The latest version of Python gets installed as an individual package.

* Over 160 scientific packages and their dependencies are also installed.

If you don't need all the packages or need to conserve bandwidth or storage 
space, there is an option for you - **Miniconda**.
<br>

## Miniconda
**Either Anaconda or Miniconda is adequate for this course**. [Miniconda][4] is a smaller
distribution as compared to Anaconda, which includes only ```conda``` and Python. 
Miniconda can do everything Anaconda is capable of, but **doesn't have the preinstalled 
packages**. You can still install any of the available packages ```using conda install PACKAGENAME``` 
on the terminal/Anaconda Prompt. Interestingly, you can anytime upgrade from Miniconda 
to Anaconda by using the command:

```conda install anaconda```

In the command above, did you notice that we followed the same ```conda install PACKAGENAME``` 
syntax? See an example below to install the Numpy package with conda on the 
Terminal/Anaconda Prompt. You will see a demonstration soon after understanding the 
setup.
<br>

## Overview - Managing Packages using either ```pip``` or ```conda```

The ```conda``` and ```pip``` both are the Python package managers. Package managers are used to
installing libraries and other software on your computer. ```pip``` is the default package
manager for Python libraries, whereas ```conda``` focuses only on the packages that are 
available from the Anaconda distribution.

> ## *Update Note*
> *In the newer version of Anaconda/Miniconda, both ```pip``` and ```conda``` package managers are 
included by default, so you do not need to install them separately*.

Both ```pip``` and ```conda``` gets installed when you install either Anaconda or Miniconda. On 
the next page, we will see details to install Anaconda/Miniconda. However, ```pip``` also 
comes preinstalled with the current Python 3 version.

In case if you have Anaconda/Miniconda already installed, and don't have ```pip``` in your
system, there are two ways:

1. Refer to the [Pip installation instructions][5]
2. Install ```conda``` first and then install pip using conda. We will see commands for this 
step on the very next page because we will learn to install Anaconda/Miniconda next.

Which one should I prefer - ```pip``` or ```conda```?
There are two points you can consider before making a choice:

1. The available packages available from the Anaconda distribution in ```conda``` focus on 
data science, whereas ```pip``` is for general use. Conda installs precompiled packages. 
For example, the Anaconda distribution comes with Numpy, Scipy, and Scikit-learn 
compiled with the [MKL library][6], speeding up various math operations. **But, sometimes, 
you may need packages other than the ones listed on the Anaconda distribution**.
2. Pip can install both Python and non-Python packages. Pip can install any package 
listed on the [Python Package Index][7] (PyPI).

**You can (and will) still use **```pip``` alongside ```conda```** to install packages**.

## Environments
A Python environment comprises a particular version of each of the following:

* Python interpreter,
* Python-packages, and
* The utility scripts, such as pip. It is possible to have two or more environments 
residing on the same computer *virtually*. If you are using Anaconda, you are in the 
```base(root)``` environment by-default.

Along with managing packages, Conda is also a virtual environment manager. It's 
similar to [virtualenv][8] and [pyenv][9], other popular environment managers.

## Why do you need a Virtual Environment?
Each virtual environment remains isolated from other virtual environments, and the 
default “system” environment. **Environments allow you to separate and isolate the 
packages you are using for different projects**. Often you’ll be working with code 
that depends on different versions of some library. For example, you could have code
that uses new features in Numpy, or code that uses old features that have been 
removed. It’s practically impossible to have two versions of Numpy installed at 
once, as having both installed can lead to a lot of confusion and bugs. Instead, 
you should make an environment for each version of Numpy then work in the appropriate 
environment for the project.

You can also export the list of packages in an environment to a file, then include 
that file with your code. This allows other people to easily load all the dependencies 
for your code. Pip has similar functionality with ```pip freeze > requirements.txt```.

## Where we go from here
Next, I'll get into the details of using Anaconda. First I'll cover installing it, 
then using the package manager, and finally creating and managing environments.


[1]:https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/navigator/overview/
[2]:https://www.linkedin.com/learning/comptia-a-plus-220-902-cert-prep-4-virtualization-printers-and-troubleshooting
[3]:https://www.udacity.com/course/linux-command-line-basics--ud595
[4]:https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html
[5]:https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/
[6]:https://docs.continuum.io/mkl-optimizations/
[7]:https://pypi.org/
[8]:https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/
[9]:https://github.com/yyuu/pyenv
















