# Managing Environments
```Conda``` can be used to create environments to isolate your projects. To create an environment, use the following command in your Terminal/Anaconda Prompt.

```conda create -n env_name [python=X.X] [LIST_OF_PACKAGES]```

Here ```-n env_name``` sets the name of your environment (```-n``` for name) and 
```LIST_OF_PACKAGES``` is the list of packages you want to be installed in the 
environment. If you wish to install a specific version of Python to be installed, 
say 3.7, use ```python=3.7```. For example, to create an environment named 
```my_env``` with Python 3.7, and install NumPy and Keras in it, use the command 
below.

```conda create -n my_env python=3.7 numpy Keras```

## Entering (Activate) an environment
Once you have an environment created, you can enter into it by using:

> *For  conda 4.6 and later versions on Linux/macOS/Windows, use*
> ```conda activate my_env```
> *For conda versions prior to 4.6 on Linux/macOS, use* 
> ```source activate my_env```
> ```For conda versions prior to 4.6 on Windows, use``` 
> ```activate my_env```

When you're in the environment, you'll see the environment name in the terminal 
prompt. Something like ```(my_env) ~ $```.

## List the Installed Packages in the Current Environment
The environment has only a few packages installed by default, plus the ones you installed when creating it. You can check this out with

```conda list``` 

Installing packages in the environment is the same as before: 
```conda install package_name```. Only this time, the specific packages you 
install will only be available when you're in the environment.

## Deactivate an Environment
To leave the environment, type ```conda deactivate``` (on OSX/Linux) or 
```deactivate``` (Windows).

> *For  conda 4.6 and later versions on Linux/macOS/Windows, use*
> ```conda deactivate```
> *For conda versions prior to 4.6 on Linux/macOS, use* 
> ```source deactivate```
> *For conda versions prior to 4.6 on Windows, use* 
> ```deactivate```

## Additional Resources
   * [Managing virtual environments and packages with][1] ```pip```
   * [Managing virtual environments with][2] ```conda```
   * [A comprehensive cheat sheet of **Conda 4.6** commands][3]
   * [A comprehensive cheat sheet of Conda version prior to 4.6 commands][4]


[1]:https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html
[2]:https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#managing-environments
[3]:https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/_downloads/843d9e0198f2a193a3484886fa28163c/conda-cheatsheet.pdf
[4]:https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/4.6.0/_downloads/52a95608c49671267e40c689e0bc00ca/conda-cheatsheet.pdf



