## Summary
At this moment, you should have completed the following steps:

1. Install and navigate through the Anaconda
2. Download Python packages in Anaconda Terminal
3. Setup and manage one or more environments

Below are a few best practices that you can consider to incorporate in your programming
habit.

## Using Environments
One thing that’s helped me tremendously is having separate environments for 
different Python versions. I used the commands below to create two separate 
environments - `py38_env` and `py39_env`,

`conda create -n py38_env python=3.8` <br>
`conda create -n py39_env python=3.9`

Now, I have a general use environment for each Python version. In each of those 
environments, I've installed most of the standard data science packages 
(NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, etc.). Remember that when you set up an environment 
initially, you'll only start with the standard packages in addition to whatever 
packages you specify in your `conda create` statement.

I’ve also found it useful to create environments for each project I’m working on. 
It works great for non-data related projects too, like web apps with Flask. 
For example, I have an environment for my personal blog using [Pelican][1].

## Sharing Environments
When sharing your code on GitHub, it's good practice to make an environment file 
and include it in the repository. You can do this using `conda` as:

`conda env export > environment.yaml`

## Share the List of Dependencies
For users not using conda, you may want to share the list of packages installed in 
the current environment. You can use `pip` to generate such a list as 
`requirements.txt` file using:

`pip freeze > requirements.txt`

Later, you can share this `requirements.txt` file with other users over Github. 
Once a user (or yourself) switches to another environment, you can install all the 
packages mentioned in the `requirements.txt` file using:

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

You can [learn more here][2] about using `pip` instead of `conda`. This will make it 
easier for people to install all the dependencies for your code.

## Recommended Read
   * To learn more about conda and how it fits in the Python ecosystem, check out 
   this article by Jake Vanderplas: [Conda myths and misconceptions][3].
   * Here's the [conda glossary documentation][4] for your reference.




[1]:http://docs.getpelican.com/en/stable/
[2]:https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/cli/pip_freeze/
[3]:https://jakevdp.github.io/blog/2016/08/25/conda-myths-and-misconceptions/
[4]:https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/glossary.html






